Did you ride the school bus as a kid, Wes?
Yeah, I did.
I mean, well, until I got kicked off, anyway.
You got kicked off the school bus?
What'd you do?
Alright, well, let's say you're a young'un in high school, you're getting excited, learning
about technology and electronics, and someone tells you you can make a taser out of a disposable
camera.
Wait a minute, you brought a taser on the bus, Wes?
Yeah, turns out the school district wasn't so keen on that.
Hello, friends, and welcome back to your weekly Linux talk show.
My name is Chris.
My name is Wes.
Wes, is that a giant plate of scrambled eggs?
Extra maple syrup.
Nice!
This episode's brought to you by a cloud guru, the leader in hands-on learning.
The only way to learn a new skill is by doing.
That's why ACG provides hands-on labs for cloud Linux servers and much more.
Go get your hands cloudy at a cloud guru dot com.
Coming up on the show today, I'm going to chat with Aaron Bakley, who built a home out
of a school bus, and then he took it to the next level and automated all kinds of things
on this bus using Linux and Home Assistant.
It's an incredible journey of learning things from scratch and taking one challenge after
another and building something incredible that the whole family gets to enjoy.
And it gets really, really geeky.
And you guys know I'm a big fan of road trips, and I have a lot of automation in my RV, Lady
Joops.
So this is a great chat, and it's amazing to hear how somebody can kind of come into
Linux and discover these things through the avenue of building a project like this for
their home, for their family, and all of that.
So there's just some really kind of geeky stuff we get into.
So we thought maybe we should define some terms.
All right.
First up, hardware, Victron.
That's a power inverter, charge controller, basically the unit that's the brains of the
electrical system and keeping everything going.
Yeah, in fact, the same exact gear I have in Lady Jupiter.
So it was really neat to listen to Aaron talk about how he's using the Linux system that
runs inside there to get extra information.
But we'll get to that.
And that's called the Victron Venus, right?
That's the tiny little Linux box that takes data from the Victron itself.
Yep.
Very cool.
There's also Shelly or Shelly.cloud, which is a maker of a range of small IoT products
that you can use to turn non-smart devices into smart devices.
Think things like physical controls that reflect in software and a whole lot more.
Yeah, you'll hear us talk about how he can use some of those in his build.
And then there's the whole like software aspect of it, some services that we talk about that
run on Linux.
Yeah, there's MQTT, which is the Message Queuing Telemetry Transport.
And it's a lightweight pub-sub network protocol that transports messages between devices,
sort of like the underpinning of the whole network that lets your various IoT gadgets
and systems that monitor them all talk together.
And the last bit of jargon you need here is Node-RED, which is a web-based visual development
tool that you can use to create JavaScript functions and tie complex automations together
between hardware, software, and basically everything on your network.
Recently, Aaron joined Chris to tell him about his Linux and home automation journey.
And they start with how Home Assistant changed everything.
Let's get into Home Assistant because I was googling around trying to figure out ways
I could bring in power information into Home Assistant and just even for display purposes,
but maybe even for automation triggering.
And you can see how this can be applicable to somebody who lives in a house that has
solar or maybe has a battery wall or something like that, or just wants to have a smaller
environmental impact.
I've always dreamed about pulling all that information and getting the state of charge
of my batteries.
How much solar is coming in?
How much power are we using right now?
And this seems like a real journey you went down, and you must have had to familiarize
yourself with Home Assistant.
You had to familiarize yourself with how all the Victron equipment communicates and then
how they bring that over the network, and I'm guessing you probably also had to teach
yourself MQTT in this process.
Yes.
Can you tell me a little bit about this journey?
This is...
Don't forget RS-485 and CAN bus as well.
So yeah, they've got a couple things.
So Device Bus over RS-485 and CAN bus also came into play.
Okay, so how did you get started with Home Assistant?
Was it to solve a particular problem that involved the electrical system or was it something
else entirely?
So in the Victron world, they have a thing called VRM.
If you Google VRM world, it's kind of a really interesting thing.
My bus, I won't tell you where it's at, but you can find it.
It's this graphical 3D map of the world, and you can zoom in on people that have decided
to share the information about their Victron installations on the world.
It's pretty cool.
And so Victron internally, they have a thing called the Venus OS.
It's like an open source version of Linux kind of distro that goes with it.
This is the reason I went with Victron equipment.
It's actually...
I looked at a lot of different vendors for power infrastructure, for solar controllers
and inverters and things like that.
But many of them had semi-documented API interfaces or not really at all, or just closed loop
like plug it in and trust us, it'll work.
There's your firmware upgrade that is a black box that might add more features.
I don't know.
Versus I'm looking at the Victron stuff and it's kind of all over the place.
But as I'm digging through it, I'm like, oh my God, there's a reason it's all over the
place is because they're actually allowing their software to be not installed or anything.
So they're like, go ahead and install Venus OS on a Raspberry Pi, not their own embedded
thing.
Oh, I had no idea.
So at the time I bought the Venus GX, which was the product that they were using, and
it's the system integrator.
They've got CAN bus interfaces and their proprietary serial bus interface, ethernet, Wi-Fi, things
like that, and their software.
So the idea is you buy a Victron inverter or a solar controller and you plug their cables,
the appropriate cable into this box, and it just renders a little display that shows the
status on it.
So it shows like the battery and the inverter state and the charge and battery percentage
and stuff like that.
It's all kind of a plug and play kind of deal.
And I was like, man, you know, $350 is a lot of money for that thing.
So I'm like, well, I can get a Raspberry Pi for 40 bucks and their software's right there.
And they're even releasing an image that you can just install on an SD card and it works.
And lo and behold, I put it on there and it booted up and I'm like, wow, this is pretty
cool.
I ended up putting a GitHub gist on my travels through that.
And this is at the time I was discovering this, I hadn't even finished the installation
of the Victron equipment in the bus.
I had just finished the battery.
I knew this was the direction I was going.
So I was just kind of researching.
There was stuff that was taking forever to ship and real life was going by and things
like that.
And I couldn't work on it all the time.
So I kind of spent some research time looking that up.
After a while, I ended up buying Cantact, it's called Cantact Cannibal is the name of
it.
It's a little CAN bus interface.
It's just like open source hardware kind of deal, USB plugged it into that.
You say it was the Cantact Cannibal.
Is that what it was?
Yeah.
Cannibal.
Not cannibal like you eat things, but Cannibal, C-A-N-A-B-L-E.
Just a neat little dingus of a USB CAN bus interface.
Okay.
Started loading up the software and digging through because Victron uses D-Bus for messaging
on everything inside of their devices.
And so there's just all this stuff hanging off of device trees and started kind of putting
in my equivalent stack.
I got a RTC real time clock hat that had digital analog converters and some optocouple decoupled
contactor controls for like relays and stuff.
And then I got just one diagnostic style USB Victron, proprietary Victron interface to
plug into it that normally plug in in your laptop.
But it just, if you plug it into the Raspberry Pi, their OS detected the device and kind
of worked.
So when I started adding up the cost of all these individual components, what I realized
is that I'm now about the same price as just buying a Venus GX.
And now I've got sort of a Frankenstein comp side with 201 project sitting in here that's
controlling thousands of dollars of equipment and we're depending on it to work all the
time.
And I'm like, I just, I couldn't get behind that.
So I just went and bought their actual device, which has been a fantastic little box ever
since.
It's nice to be able to play around with the Raspberry Pi though.
You know, it gave you the confidence to make that purchase.
Exactly.
And I think that was a very shrewd marketing thing on their side because I can still just
open up on their production device.
I can get a root console and I can make changes to the operating system.
I can make a thermal changes that get wiped during a firmware update.
Firmware update actually is, if I'm using air quotes, there is actually just a reload
of the disk partition on the, on the little device, or there's a persistent partition
that you can load modifications to that persists across updates of it.
So you can write custom code and modifications to this thing in Python or whatever you can
fit on the thing and it stays there.
So you can write permanent upgrade and changes to these things and change them how you want.
And if it can talk over ethernet or USB, there you go.
You got your extension to this device.
So it's very extendable.
So anyway, after kind of going through that process, I started using that device.
I just got it installed with the rest of the Victron equipment and I just kind of left
it at that.
So we drove and traveled and things like that.
And about a year in, I was a little dissatisfied over the fact that I had to stay connected
to the internet to publish internet to VRM.
I knew this conceptually at the time, but I didn't know the details, but there's an
MQTT mosquito broker sitting on the Venus that's running that collects all this information
from D-Bus that's published onto it from their software.
Victron is shipping essentially that thing that you installed as a Linux box with MQTT
running on it?
Yeah.
Wow.
It's got mosquito on it.
And what it's doing is it's a broker that's connecting to VRM and VRM is just a giant
cloud mosquito broker.
And they do some magic on the back end to put your data in one spot.
And if you have a device, it doesn't matter if it's a Raspberry Pi or whatever, if it's
running the Victron stuff and can authenticate against VRM, you get a free account and you
get like six months of data storage for that.
Since the data is sparsely populated up there, when the VRM, the local device pushes the
data up through mosquito, you get the resolution of whatever it's publishing.
So you get some pretty great detail on that.
So you get every sensor and every aspect that it's collecting is pushed up to VRM and stored
there.
I thought that was super neat.
And that's what I had been using the whole time, like from when we pushed off and sold
the house and started doing things.
If I wanted to see the status of solar or power or whatever, batteries, that's how I
just went to VRM and looked at it.
So for the benefit of the audience at a really high level, what kind of information is in
these stats?
Every temperature sensor, the amperage and voltage of your system on both the AC side,
the inverter side, the input side, like what's the voltage coming in?
What's the battery voltage?
What's the watts computed?
What's your actual location?
If you have a GPS plugged into this thing, it'll save that any type of alarms or failures
that are going on.
So if you set some boundaries about what is going on or the status is degraded, example
is I have a smart battery controller, it's made by REC BMS.
It talks to the Victron and its protocol and format over CAN bus.
If there is a failure or something going on, a cell imbalance or whatever, the REC BMS
system will publish that on the line and then the Victron unit picks up that alarm and forwards
it on to VRM.
And so then I would get an email that the battery is bad or is having a problem, something
like that.
I find it fascinating because it's like this hidden functionality exists in my rig that
I have yet to really tap into.
Really in small ways, I've glanced it, but what kind of things can you do once you start
collecting this information?
It's fairly limited.
I would say that it's in many ways is geared towards an installer that manages several
installations because you can track and monitor lots of installations.
That was my impression is that maybe you go to a specialist and they set up a high end
customer and then that customer has a problem.
They can pull up this portal on their end and get their client's information like draw
battery issues, temperature stuff.
Yeah.
And not only that, you can reverse HTTP.
It basically holds a connection so I can get to the user interface, the little buttons
that you can push to control and configure things through VRM.
So anywhere in the world, if I load their client either on a web page or the software
goes on a phone, I can then remote control that GX if it has an internet connection,
the Venus or the C-SERBO or they got a couple of different lines now.
So you can configure and control it.
The warning is, is you'd never hook up your device to something that you can accidentally
push the power to turn it off because if you do that now it doesn't come back on because
you just turned it off remotely.
So don't do that.
Yeah.
So a lot of monitoring history, things like that.
You can set like thresholds for alarms on any of the sensors if you want that kind of
stuff.
It's pretty good for that.
But it requires an internet connection and that's where getting this data into home assistant
seems extremely appealing.
That's actually the exact conclusion I came to as I want to have this remotely.
I like the fact that it ships it up and it wasn't an ever a problem with the amount of
data going out.
It was more like sometimes it is the net reception.
I'd be parked in somewhere and I guess it's terrible reception.
And I didn't want to lose the data because I'm kind of a data nerd and I didn't want
to see big gaps of zero.
The Venus devices can only cache it for so long.
I think it's like 12 or so hours before it starts discarding old data.
And you have those graphs on a dashboard.
You don't want them to look bad.
No, they can't look bad otherwise it's like, what are you?
So what I ended up doing was Victron has a published page help doc on how to get the
MQTT data out of there.
You have to do this.
It's not just a pub sub thing.
It's actually have to send a keep alive to a specific branch of device off of it based
on the serial number of your machine.
Easy to do relatively.
I ended up making a keep alive that ran inside of node red.
It was like a two node node.
It was pretty simple to build and that way it just pinged it every 15 or 20 seconds and
then it would, it's funny.
So if you had like MQTT Explorer, it was the tool I use and you pointed it at the end point
for this thing after you enabled the ability to see it in the UI, it shows nothing.
And then you ping it once and then suddenly there's like hundreds of, if you just subscribe
to all to star everything on it, there's like hundreds of parameters that show up on this
thing and MQTT Explorer is like, holy crap, is it like this giant list that's like thousands
of items inside of it, literally thousands.
And then if you stop the keep alive, it all just evaporates because it all disappears
because of the way MQTT is telling it to discard its last will and testament messages, it says
go away.
And so yeah, once I published that, I'm like, well, okay, what am I going to keep?
And then, so what I noticed is that it didn't matter if I subscribed to the whole thing.
It's kind of this giant warehouse of parameters I could dig through.
Many of them I didn't care about, but as I started setting up sensors in home, so I'm
getting ahead of myself.
So home assistant, I was like, okay, so this is the platform I'm going to play with and
quickly realized like the learning curve for home assistant was don't run it on an SD card.
Yes, right.
That was step number one because you'll burn a hole right through it.
Are you on a pie?
Yeah.
So I'm on a pie.
And then the production one, I'll just, I know we don't have video on the final thing,
but I have it out of the bus right now because I'm kind of redoing it.
I alluded to that.
So this is the whole deal.
You can see there's a, this is a metal housing for a pie with a space for an SD card or I'm
sorry, an SSD in there.
Yeah.
So there's an SSD drive in this.
So you can see the little bridge SSD bridge right there going through it.
So this thing is a 12 volt, the 12 volt box.
So it just runs off of the 12 volt subsystem on the vehicle.
What is that called?
I want that.
That one's like the old crappy one.
Oh really?
Here's the cooler better one, which I'm actually building for my house.
So since then, that's a whole other story.
We've, we've got a home base now.
This is the desk pie pro and it's far, far better desk than the other box.
The first one is like an Amazon special.
This one is like you buy it from desk pie pro store.
If you see this cover on the front, this is actually a plexiglass cover on the front.
So it allows RF to come out of the box.
The metal box RF is killed from it.
Like Bluetooth and wifi are extremely attenuated.
Whereas this one works totally fine.
There's a sidecar inside of this that redirects the position.
If you note, it's got full sized ports along the back.
Yeah.
This is, this is a PI four cause that's usually it's the micro HDMI, right?
And it has the GPIO pins in the back like, like a port.
Yeah, it's great.
So if you want it to, you could just get a big old header cable, ribbon cable and just
kind of shove it on there.
And so that is called the desk PI pro I'll have to look that up.
It's a good little kit.
Yeah.
All of my home assistant stuff in my, in my bus is it's, which is, it's just a class ARV.
It's not actually a bus, uh, is all on PI fours and they're just in a, um, the flick
case, which is great, but you know, that is, that's a step above right there.
It's cool.
It's a nice little desktop unit.
There's also some other units that are, um, din rail components.
So if you looked in the build on the bus, I heavily invested in din rail for, for all
of the electrical components and I just didn't have the space to stick, stick it in there
without getting another enclosure.
And so I ended up with just a, you know, the metal box I did.
If I were to rebuild this whole thing again, I might integrate it even tighter.
Yeah.
That's kind of what I've been wondering too.
I've been, I've been thinking a lot about that recently.
Okay.
So you have a PI four with home assistant running on it and you've decided this is your
platform.
Did you start to integrate other aspects of the bus into home assistant to give us an
idea of what's, what's in there, what home assistance is aware of and what it's doing.
So the first thing that happened was, um, after connecting Victron, uh, I hooked up
my air conditioning to it.
So you have the mini split heads.
They're made by, um, gree, G R E E and, uh, they have a little wifi module.
And I think the wifi module that they sell is made to connect to call back to some home
base in China and then serve up a phone app on your thing.
Somebody figured out by using wire shark and some other tools, they figured out the line
protocol for it based on the size and shape of the little dingus that plugs into the head.
I guarantee it's an ESP 32 on a little board that has some proprietary connector for their
stuff.
Right.
So these people took it apart, figured out the off protocol, figured out how to provision
it so you can just set, you use curl to send a special magic, uh, Jason string to the thing
to configure it for your wifi network.
And then it's connected.
And so home assistant has a, um, add on for that to directly control it as a climate module.
And I'll tell you what, when I got that thing going and it presented a thermostat with heating,
cooling, dehumidify fan speeds, all this stuff, I was like, man, that's, that was pretty great.
That was a cool day that I did that.
Yeah, no kidding.
Gosh, that's so great.
And then it's right there in home assistant available for automation.
Yeah.
And cause before we were just using the remotes.
And so sometimes it was like, where'd the remote go, you know, like a caveman.
So no longer chasing the remotes down.
We could do it from the phone, like on our phones and stuff.
And that was kind of the beginning of the iteration of the user interface for home assistant,
because you know, you gotta, you'd be real careful about what type of tabs to present
what and things from there.
I started adding like more information from the Victron, like tank levels.
So at, for a while Victron didn't support anything really good on the sensors.
They only supported like a US style resistance and a European style resistance sender in
there.
Neither of them worked for the propane system.
And I had like this capacitive reading sensor system that was like, okay, but it wouldn't
really compatible.
It didn't give a good information.
So they finally went through a feature update on the Venus that allowed you to do abstract
resistance values for your tank senders.
So then it was, I knew it was going to happen eventually.
I just assumed at some point somebody would get tired of it and push an update that actually
worked.
I started crying and posting requests for features and stuff as well.
So maybe I helped push that over a little bit.
I'd like to think it worked.
Yeah.
And so I got water levels for freshen and gray and, and then propane levels came later.
I know pretty crazy stuff.
One of the things I started building in was like a waste tank.
So if the waste tank's too high and there's still fresh water, it turns off the pump now.
So the pump will cut out so you don't overflow your waste and back into the floor of the
shower drain, for example.
That's so sweet.
As a father, I totally understand why you did that.
Yeah.
Same goes for like the washing machine stuff.
Sometimes the washing machine would suck the water dry and you're sitting there.
Why is the water, why is the wash not going?
Well, it's because we ran out of water.
Right.
And the pump's sitting there pulling up from an empty tank.
Yeah.
And it's like sucking an empty tank.
Oh yeah.
Yeah.
So like, why did it do that?
Oh, that's why.
That got to a point to where I realized the value in this and I got an old Amazon tablet,
reflashed it with a lineage OS.
There's a couple of different like, um, apps that you can install that help you enable
you to make a kiosk mode sort of deal on it.
And so just open the webpage for home assistant and kiosk mode.
And suddenly the kids were able to see that when one of my daughters, she was really excited
because she could see the power because if you have maybe not perfect awesome son coming
in and it's kind of so, so you kind of have to judge the number of laundry loads you can
do.
Not just that.
You really kind of have to have the whole family on the same page.
Can, is this a day you can leave the TV on or do we need to make sure if we're done,
we turn the TV off right away.
Like getting everybody understanding that is tricky when you're off grid.
Surprisingly, if we're not running the air conditioning, everything else, you have infinite
power.
Yeah.
It's like a rounding error at that point.
The TV could run 24 seven, 600 amp hours over here.
Yeah.
But I have to imagine a display at least helps the family understand this is where we're
at.
This is what we can do today.
Yeah.
And it was really cool cause they got excited about it and they're like, can I do wash?
And I'm like, well, what's it say over there?
And they do the thing and then like looking at the, I was like, Oh, I can do it.
And I was like, yeah.
And it was just, it was cool to watch them get involved with something that I had basically
been my own, the dad project for a long time to sort of let me know where things are at
because I have to then make the announcement, the grievous announcement, okay, we've got
to pack up cause you gotta go get water cause it's a surprise.
And instead it's no longer a surprise and we can plan.
And that made a big difference.
Absolutely.
And I imagine, you know, cause I've done the same thing.
I have a fire tablet actually just upgraded it last week.
Fire tablet mounted about midway in our rig and the family really took to the automation
a lot more and all of the other smart devices when there was a dashboard they could use
and you know, they, they had feedback and I, I made a lot of tweaks to the dashboard
based on their feedback.
I imagine you probably did something similar.
Oh yeah.
Yeah.
And I would kind of just watch, I'd be like watching them poke at it and I'm like, you
see them sort of clicking around and I was like, well, I probably should remove that
because it's a little too much information about stuff.
Or maybe they wanted to see this cause they'd ask, how do I know what X is?
I'm like, oh, here, let me show that kind of thing.
That was sort of a learning curve.
It kind of, it got static enough to where it really served our purposes.
The next level after that was honestly, I started digging into note, well actually sort
of simultaneously with like getting Grafana in there and a real SQL database to serve
the, the, the history and Influx DB for tracking the metrics locally.
Influx DB was the, was really the big turning point for collecting the Victron stuff locally.
I was only still collecting stuff I'd configured sensors for in home assistant.
I wasn't picking up every single crazy turn of events that happened through the Victron.
I didn't need it, but it's still quite a bit of data.
It gives you a lot of more information.
Are you, are you running that and home assistant on the PI?
Yeah.
I went with not just the home assistant version that is just installed standalone.
It's actually this Docker style container where if you just do the add-ons for those,
cause there's add-ons in the store for those things with the has IO implementation, it
just sets itself up and becomes a Docker container.
And so you can just run the thing as long as you have persistent config, you're good.
Same with node red and some of these other tools.
There were some slight tweaks to some of the Docker config files to be able to allow egressive
traffic out of some of them, but nothing major that I had to change.
What happened though, is that I started collecting interesting trends.
So I would start competing, I would make fake sensors based on other sensors, based on historical
running averages and things like that.
And those then became the sensor feeds for doing things inside of a node red, which were
things like power is trending this way.
The prediction is that we will reach the zero more power available for things at this date
and time.
So try scaling back the temperature of the air conditioning by one degree every five
minutes until you don't get that.
So basically want to see that trend flatten out to just a balanced average.
So there were some soft end points to configuring air conditioning and power and stuff like
the air conditioning, cause the biggest deal that would scale back AC if there was limited
power sort of thing.
So that meant a little discomfort, but it also meant our power didn't go out.
That really seems like things, again, manufacturers should be actually just building into the
rigs at this point, but that's a great example.
I was thinking about doing the reverse for heating up here in the Pacific Northwest.
They should.
That wasn't actually a thing that I got later.
If you're in a mobile vehicle heating with propane directly in your, in your vehicle,
like some of these schoolies and stuff I've seen, they do that.
It's terrible.
It introduces lots of moisture.
A propane furnace is typical RV fare.
Great.
It gives dry heat, but you've got to have a lot of propane to do that.
I had a lot of propane, but I dedicated it specifically to the stove oven and the hot
water heater.
So I went with diesel heaters instead.
So there's this cheap Chinese aftermarket diesel heaters.
You can get Amazon places like that.
They're about $250 or so, and a five kilowatt heater is $250.
So that's like what, 18,000 BTU or something like that.
They consume like a gallon of fuel every 24 hours at that output.
And if you're really running five kilowatts of output, you'll cook yourself right out
of a 40 foot vehicle.
Yeah.
Did you say multiples?
Did you buy multiples?
So I got two, one up in the front, one in the back.
Yeah.
I bet it cooks.
The one was good enough.
But what I found was that to control the moisture on the single pane glass of the windshield
and things, I really needed to heat up the front too.
Those have a little Chinese controller in there.
That's good enough.
It's got a timer.
You can push the on and off button, set your set temp, but there's no integration with
that.
So there's this guy named Ray, Ray something, Ray, I can't remember his last name.
It's a product called Afterburner and he's this Australian chap who has been building
these boxes and they're super cool.
They have a little, they're built, they're kind of based around ESP 32.
He supports the firmware update.
They got a web interface, MQTT, all that good stuff.
And so configure that to just publish their status into the device tree as well.
So this MQTT tree that's being held on the mosquito broker on the home assistant is collecting
a whole crapload of stuff.
We got all the Victron stuff.
We got the air conditioning.
We got status about all the pumps and switches and valves and things for the plumbing and
stuff in the vehicle.
We got the heater controls.
We have just position, date, time, all that good stuff that's sitting there.
So there's just this wealth of data to start building a bunch of logic into things.
So one of the modes I had set up was a collaborative agreement between the air conditioning and
the heaters.
If the humidity, oh, that was the other thing.
So Shelly got into play on the mix on this.
So the Shelly HTs, the little spherical deals, you can get a 12-volt adapter for those.
So those are screwed in.
So they're persistently powered instead of off a battery.
And then I also got some Shelly RGBW controllers for lighting so we could control lights and
stuff from the same deal.
So your typical home assistant kind of stuff, lighting and environmental monitoring.
So the Shellys, when they would pick up that the humidity was climbing to the moon, when
you're winter in somewhere that's cold and wet and raining, very easy to pick up lots
of humidity.
It sounds crazy to run your air conditioner, but in a car, one of the most effective ways
to reduce your humidity in the vehicle to keep it from fogging up is to run the heat
and the air conditioning simultaneously.
You mobilize the moisture with the heat, and then you condense it and extract it with the
cold coils of the AC.
So Node-RED would then coordinate the Chinese heaters with the GREE air conditioning system
because if you use the dehumidify mode in the GREE system, it wasn't really effective
on its own because it was just pumping out cold.
You need to heat it too.
And so between those two, you'd set the GREE to dehumidify and it was below a certain temperature
outside and inside.
There's some settings there.
It would kick on the heaters to help it out.
That was a huge comfort thing.
Yeah.
Did you ever have a situation where you were in a low power scenario and some of these
systems are kicking in and draining you even faster and you look at the percentage of power
left, you're like, oh, what?
What happened here?
No, I don't think I've really encountered that.
No.
You and your infinite power.
Yeah.
The funny thing is that some of the best power situations can honestly be if it's sunny in
winter time because you don't have to heat or you don't have to cool, I mean.
Yeah.
And really, if the sun's out, a bus heats up.
Well, kind of.
I mean, we don't mind.
We have quite a bit of insulation.
We have like three inches of insulation all the way around, so it stays fairly consistent.
If it's air temperature, it definitely heats up though eventually.
The air exchange will happen.
And you have six, I don't think we've actually said, you have six people living in this.
Right.
So it makes a big difference in a lot of ways with humidity and with temperature.
Yeah.
Four kids, two dogs, a cat, my wife and I, and then I'm sitting up in the front in my
office which is one of the chairs with a fold-out monitor and computer and everything.
So I'm running a real desktop PC, not just like a laptop usually, and talking on the
internet with work calls and doing all the stuff that people do on a mobile remote thing
there.
Right.
So now you're rebuilding, it sounds like.
You've had the opportunity to set up a home base and can kind of redo some of this stuff.
What are you going to change?
What are you tweaking in the next build?
I've been always sort of light on understanding how Docker works and Kubernetes and deploying
things and reliably redeploying configurations and stuff.
So I have been experimenting a lot with virtual machines and running Home Assistant just on
a machine because it's frankly kind of a pain in the butt to cycle back and forth between
keyboards and monitors on an actual physical Raspberry Pi.
The fundamentals are the same.
So for me, it's been learning about how to control my Docker environments, how to revision
control them, how to keep all my configs in play and working and hopefully with Home Assistant
finally getting to version one, I don't know if you've seen their version numbering has
changed in the last.
Now it's date based.
Yeah, it's date based.
And so it's like, I feel like they're, they've turned a corner in like maturity on things
and the API isn't changing, not retiring so much stuff.
Stuff seems to be consistent for longer periods of time and I feel like I can kind of trust
that more now.
Are you doing any Home Assistant in your home base?
I am.
I have a little extra buck, the DeskPi Pro, I can turn my sprinkler system on from that.
It's pretty great.
That is.
I picked up some furnace controls for the house.
So I have my heat HVAC is now controlled through it.
Very straightforward.
Now I picked up Shelly, the AC clamp meters that they have.
So you got split phase clamp meter powering.
So that's showing up actually in the mail, I'm just going to hook it up and wire that
to main.
And you clamp it around the mains on it, so it's not, you have some power, but that's
about it.
And then that way I can get some status on that and just sort of see what's going on.
Yeah.
And that'll be nice if you do hit the road or when you do hit the road again, you can
keep an eye on home too.
Yeah.
Actually my wife just snuck it around the corner here.
You can see what it looks like.
This is the, here's the clamp meter, one of the clamp meters for it.
So it's, you can see kind of the size of it going on here.
So this will clamp around a 120 amp leg of your power panel.
That's kind of like what the Victron stuff is sort of giving me in those spaces.
You can derive a lot of the other information from just knowing the amps going through something
if you know the voltages.
Does a house feel like a bigger problem domain?
Because that's, that's how I felt is I was sort of motivated because a rig I could wrap
my head around the entire thing from the ground up.
Without a house, it felt like I don't know where to start.
I don't know why I had it.
I just had a different approach.
I think after going through the process of going on the bus and having to make things
small, effective and efficient, the house is easy.
It's like cake because you know, there's lots of space.
It doesn't go down the road.
It doesn't drive down the road.
It stays in one place.
When you come back to it, it's still there.
It's very stable in a weird way compared to a bus.
Yes.
So it's in a lot of ways, it's almost like reverse now I can use the house as an incubator
for ideas and practice this and fine tune this better.
We're really looking forward to getting back out on the road and, and doing some trips.
You know, it's not like we're going to go for just a week, we'll probably go for longer
than that.
Hopefully my work being full remote allows me to do that and then I'll be able to run
out with another iteration of this whole home assistant process again and hopefully then
take what I've learned from pushing it on the bus to make it easy to recycle that concept
back to the house and make the house re rebuildable, right?
I love your idea of, of trying things at home, experimenting with things and then road testing
them.
Yeah.
One of the most important lessons I've learned with all of this is that it's really easy
to start acquiring a whole lot of nerd knobs to play with.
It's like you plug in a few things and suddenly you have data galore everywhere and it's really
easy to lose sight of the, of the goal here is to make your life easier.
Sure it can be your hobby to, to just swim like Scrooge McDuck does in the money bin
full of coins of data everywhere and doing every in all of the possibilities.
But I find I, I will get lost in the possibilities when the reality is I don't really need to
do that.
And everything you add, every feature you add, this is a, the classic software development
corundum everywhere is that too many features.
Some of just for self hosting, the more you build, the more you have to maintain.
Yeah.
And, and I think that's been my, um, balance right now.
So I left the hardest thing for last, which is to make it easier to scale and rebuild
and redeploy.
And so that's what I'm really working on right now.
Well, Aaron, I, uh, I look forward to following your adventures in the future.
And if you're ever in the Pacific Northwest, let me know.
Absolutely.
Yeah.
Keep track of us on our Instagram.
You'll probably see things here and there.
And uh, it was really fun kind of getting a chance to dive into this a bit more details
Linode.com slash unplugged.
Go there to get $100 in credit for a 60 days on your new account.
And you support the show.
Linode is our hosting provider for everything we've built for JB 3.0 and everything I've
personally built for the last couple of years.
Linode's infrastructure is solid and flexible.
And the nice thing is you can focus on your work, not on infrastructure problems.
You get 11 data centers around the world to choose from.
Every machine has super fast SSDs.
Every system is backed by their awesome customer support, the best in the business.
I often talk about Linode in terms of hosting like a server, but they also have object storage,
which we use the crab out of here at Jupiter broadcasting.
A really handy tool is when you combine the Linode command line tool that just uses their
fantastic API with the object storage.
So I'll have like a JPEG on my hard drive that I want to link to somebody.
I have this link command, like all set up already in fish.
So where I can create a file or I can delete a file or I can upload a file and market as
public and then generate a URL for it and then bring it back to my clipboard.
And then I can just paste that URL into a chat.
It feels like magic.
And then just recently I was experimenting with static websites to do like a single purpose,
like a status page that gives you just information if a service is down.
And I'm experimenting with just running those directly out of object storage.
It's so awesome.
It feels like I figured out some kind of hack to host web pages without a web server in
front of it that are just super fast and static.
Like why is this just not a thing more people are doing?
You know, there's really a lot you can play with.
They have an impressive set of applications you can just one click deploy from entire
stacks of web servers to game servers and everything.
And the pricing is ridiculously great.
They've really been able to hone in and do this right so they can charge a really reasonable
price.
I mean, 30 to 50 percent less than big cloud there over at AWS or Google.
And you get a real nice balance of technology and price for that sweet price to performance
ratio that really nobody else gets right.
Linode's really special that way.
So go check them out, support the show and see what I've been saying.
Well, before we go today, we've got one extra little surprise AMA question to throw in here.
DeckBot from Indiana writes, what can you and your host tell us about being Internet
famous?
The pros and the cons.
If you could send an earlier version of yourself one markdown document of advice about podcasting
and Internet fame, what would be on that doc and to what date would you send it?
He flatters us, Wes.
You know, he flatters us.
No kidding.
The only time Wes and I would be considered Internet famous is when we are at an open
source event and then everybody kind of knows who we are generally.
Not everybody, but a lot of people.
It helps if there's like a big Jupiter broadcasting logo somewhere.
The funniest thing actually is a lot of people have to hear us talk first before they realize
it's us.
And that's kind of, man, if that's not a sweet spot, it really is.
It's adorable.
Yeah.
And outside of that, we don't really have to worry about it.
And when I'm at a community event, I'm there to see people.
So it's great that people want to come up and say hi is one of the things I love about
this niche.
You know, if we were if we were doing, I don't know, the expanse podcast and it was huge
because that's my secret dream, an expanse podcast, then it would be kind of it would
suck to go out because I'm kind of I'm kind of an introvert when I'm on.
I'm on.
But when I'm off, you better not make me be on and then I don't like it.
But I like this question about sending ourselves a markdown document with advice about podcasting
and Internet fame.
I think I know I think I know two answers for myself.
Do you have anything that you would tell past West?
Yeah, I think I think two things.
It would be I would send it maybe like 2010 era, I think.
And one would just be I mean, I always liked podcasts, I was a podcast listener, but I
don't know up and up until I you know, got involved with Jupiter broadcasting.
I don't think I ever really considered that I would be making podcasts, I would want to
put that little, you know, that little worm in past West's ear to think that might be
a creative outlet that you would really enjoy.
I mean, between the actual content itself and learning all about audio and the hardware
we get to play with, it's been fantastic and clearly it's on my list of things I nerd out
about now.
But the other one, the other one would be prepare yourself for the work because there's
a lot more that goes into it than I would have ever considered.
Yeah, but then would you just scare past West off with that second part?
Well, that's why I thought they might be a nice combo.
You know, you're going to really like this, but it's going to be a lot of work.
Yeah.
So that way, when it's those times, it is a lot of work.
You're like, no, no, I remember future me said this is going to be worth it.
Exactly.
Yeah, it'd be like that little motivator.
That's that's interesting.
I think if I could send myself a letter, it would be pretty generic, other than it would
say, come up with one way that really works for you, for everyone to get a hold of you
and only ever talk about that one way.
Remain extremely consistent about that one way, because it kills me when I get notes.
I just get notes on all these any platform that has a messaging aspect.
So every social media platform, Reddit, YouTube, everything.
There's messages in there.
And I go in there and I get messages from people are like, how come you're not responding
to me?
And or I'll get I'll get an email from somebody says, I've been trying to get a hold of you
for three weeks.
I just feel so bad about that, because I just can't keep up with the platforms.
You're like, I legitimately had no idea.
Yeah.
And it comes up, it comes up, you know, a couple times a week, at least.
So I would love to be able to send past Chris a note that just says be super consistent
about how people should get a hold of you.
And I don't really know what that way would be.
It's definitely not email, though.
Yeah, I mean, it is for the shows, like if you want to get something into the show, the
contact forms are the best way those come in via email.
So like for show content, that's really good.
I mean, email, you know, Wes, actually, as I get to be an old man who's grumpy with social
media, I kind of think, you know, emails great.
So you've evolved on this because I was just thinking of you, you know, sort of talking
about the the horrendous size of your inbox and how hopeless of a situation it was.
Oh, I do absolutely hate email.
I have to schedule time on Monday for a project that I don't even know what it's going to
be.
But every Monday, I get something in my inbox that action that morning I have to take action
on.
And I have to spend a couple of hours that morning.
Sort of your blocked out Monday morning surprise time.
I have to because there is no social, like clear expectations on email.
And so people wake up Monday morning, and they got an agenda, and they want to get some
stuff done.
And they either need something from me or information from me or an answer from me.
And that ends up in my inbox.
They need it now.
Yeah.
And they because they otherwise they can't go on with their thing.
So I would I would be very clear about communication.
And then the other thing I think I'd say to my past self is don't do the RMS interview
that I did years ago.
The whole thing was just kind of a wild last minute thing that just sort of came up.
It was a crazy opportunity just two things lined up.
But I just had rolled out of bed.
And it was like my third night with a CPAP machine.
I just got in a CPAP.
And I had not slept because it wasn't working well for me at the time.
And you can see in the video if you look maybe you'll see like marks on my face, red spots
on my face.
Those are my CPAP straps.
The interview was like at 5am because of where RMS was in the world at the time.
And so it was a lot.
And I don't think I had time to even think about what we were doing or what I wanted
to ask RMS about.
And I don't like the way it went.
But I suppose that's for you know, the the history of the internet because there's a
lot of interviews that I think really do hold up and that still are good to listen to.
So I think I have out I've outnumbered the bad but I would have just said just don't
do it.
It's interesting and maybe unexpected at first sort of tip that it's easy to get caught up
with, you know, the excitement of like, oh, I have the potential of this interview.
This is an opportunity.
And it feels like why would you say no, but it's it's worth trying to carefully think
about when you can.
Yeah, I'd have to you know, I could do a few markdown bullet points, you know, just
boop, boop, boop.
Don't do it for these reasons.
You'll thank me later.
Yeah, and, you know, maybe warn myself about a few co-hosts here and there.
But I think that would have been it really.
It's just a communication thing.
And then maybe don't do the RMS thing.
And part of me, though, doesn't want to change anything because it's pretty great that we
get to do this.
And it's pretty the community we've built and that has stuck with us over the years
is really, I think, the best of the best out there.
And we're just we're incredibly humbled by that.
And so if like if I tweak any of that stuff, it's like maybe you warning yourself off accidentally
like things just might not have turned out the same.
Right.
Whatever pain you have suffered, it was worth it since you're here.
That's right.
All right.
If you want to watch those back live, we're back on June 8th on Tuesdays.
Go over to JBLav.TV at noon Pacific, 3 p.m.
Eastern, or get it converted to your time at Jupiter Broadcasting dot com slash calendar.
Hey, don't forget to we have the Linux flies on Mars sticker that I made myself over at
Jupiter Garage dot com for just a little bit longer.
And you can pick it up.
And every time you look at it, you'll think to yourself, Linux made history.
Linux is flying on Mars.
I also the other thing I like about the stickers, I think Linux runs on more planets than Windows.
And I like that, too.
You can follow the show on Twitter at Linux Unplugged for like announcements and stuff.
The whole podcast network is at Jupiter Syctal.
And we have a whole range of great shows, a lot more self hosted topics and Linux action
news as well.
All of that at Jupiter Broadcasting dot com.
So don't miss those shows.
They're a great companion to this here show.
Hope to see you live next week.
But otherwise, thanks for downloading and we'll see you right back here next Tuesday.